---
title: 2024 FAQs
permalink: /2024-faqs/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
---
<h4><strong>Communication with Teachers</strong></h4>
<p><strong>Q1. How do parents/guardians communicate with the teachers?</strong>
</p>
<p>Parents/guardians can communicate with the teachers by:</p>
<p>* writing a note in the Student Handbook; or</p>
<p>* sending an email to the teachers; or</p>
<p>* calling the General Office and leave a note for the teacher to return
call.</p>
<p>Parents/Guardians may wish to check with the teachers on their preferred
modes of communication.</p>
<h4><strong>Support for Students with Special Needs</strong></h4>
<p><strong>Q2. Is there any support for students with special needs?</strong>
</p>
<p>Yes, we are resourced with the same level of support as per other primary
schools in Singapore.</p>
<p><strong>Q3. How can preschools and mainstream schools work together in terms of children with special needs?</strong>
</p>
<p>We have designed our P1 curriculum structure to acclimatise pre-school
children to the primary school routine. We note that increasingly, pre-schools
have been teaching their students social skills and study skills which
are useful for the children in the transition.</p>
<p><strong>Q4. If my child faces challenges in his academic, what are the programmes or assistance available to support him/her?</strong>
</p>
<p>We have various programmes to provide additional learning support to our
students, such as the Learning Support Programmes for English and Mathematics</p>
<p></p>
<h4><strong>Recess, Lunch and Snack Breaks</strong></h4>
<p><strong>Q5. Can you share what kind of food is available at the canteen? Is it healthier choice?</strong>
</p>
<p>Our school collaborates closely with Health Promotion Board (HPB) to offer
healthier food and beverage choices in school to help students cultivate
healthy eating habits right from young.</p>
<p>Under this programme, canteen vendors need to follow food service guidelines.
These include:</p>
<p>* Cutting down fat, sugar and salt</p>
<p>* Serving whole grains, fruit and vegetables</p>
<p>* Serving healthy set meals</p>
<p>These set meals incorporate food from the four main food groups – brown
rice, wholemeal bread, meat and others, vegetable and fruit. This helps
students to receive the appropriate nutrients necessary for their growing
needs.</p>
<p><strong>Q6. Can students buy food during recess?</strong>
</p>
<p>Students will buy their own food at the canteen and learn how to return
their crockery and cutlery to the returning stations after their meals.</p>
<p><strong>Q7. How much should students bring for recess?</strong>
</p>
<p>Canteen food ranges from $1.40 (Small), $1.70 (Medium) to $2.20 (Large)
for the set menu. Drinks range from $0.60 to $1.00. If students are buying
food and drinks from the canteen, they may wish to bring approximately
$2.50 to $3.50.</p>
<p>For students who prefer to go cashless, they can participate in the POSB
Smart Buddy Programme. Further details will be made known in Term 1 for
interested parents/guardians.</p>
<p>Students are strongly encouraged to bring their own water bottle. They
may refill their bottle at the various water coolers. Drinking directly
from the water coolers is prohibited due to Covid-19.</p>
<p><strong>Q8. Due to COVID situation, will P1 students still get to have a buddy from the upper level?</strong>
</p>
<p>Yes, we have Right From The Start (RFTS) package where a P1 student will
buddy with a P6 student right from Day 1 to Day 3 when they start their
journey in our school.</p>
<h4><strong>School Operation and Dismissal</strong></h4>
<p><strong>Q9. What are the schooling hours?</strong>
</p>
<p>CVPS schooling hours are as follows:</p>
<p>* Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays: 0800 - 1330</p>
<p>* Tuesdays and Fridays: 0800 - 1430</p>
<p>Every morning, flag-raising ceremony commences at 0745 and students are
expected to be in school by 0740.</p>
<p><strong>Q10. What is the number of P1 classes next year and the number of children in each class?</strong>
</p>
<p>There are eight P1 classes with thirty students in each class.</p>
<p><strong>Q11. Will 2023 P1 first day be similar like 2022 whereby a parent can accompany the child in school on their first day?</strong>
</p>
<p>Our school has allowed parents to come into the school in the past years
at appropriate junctures (e.g. recess period) on the first day of school.
Depending on the pandemic situation, more details regarding the arrangements
will be made available to the parents of our 2023 P1 cohort nearing the
first day of school.</p>
<p></p>
<h4><strong>Academic Matters</strong></h4>
<p><strong>Q12. If Higher Chinese Language (HCL) is not offered in the school, will the students be given a chance to take up HCL? If yes, what is the procedure? Do they go to another school for lessons?</strong>
</p>
<p>We currently offer HCL; and the eligibility is based on the students'
ability to manage an intensive curriculum.</p>
<p><strong>Q13. Is there Hindi Language in P1?</strong>
</p>
<p>We do not offer Hindi Language in school. You can enquire from The Hindi
Society (Singapore) for more details.</p>
<p><strong>Q14. Students start Science subject in P3. How early should I prepare my child for this subject?</strong>
</p>
<p>Children are curious about the world around them from a young age. Parents
can promote the learning of Science by offering their children authentic,
hands-on experiences and experiments in their daily lives. Apart from asking
children why some things happen around them, parents can also encourage
them to read non-fiction books or watch scientific documentaries.</p>
<h4><strong>Administrative Matters and Services</strong></h4>
<p><strong>Q15. Can we withdraw our child from the school or transfer our child to another school once the school term starts?</strong>
</p>
<p>Yes, we do have cases of school transfer. Most of such cases are due to
change in residential address where family request for transfer to school
nearer to their new residential address. For such cases, you may apply
for the transfer online on MOE website under the "School Transfer Service".
For other reasons for transfer, please approach us directly and we will
advise accordingly.</p>
<p><strong>Q16. What are the fees for after school care? Are they payable by using the child baby bonus?</strong>
</p>
<p>On average, the Student Care fees is about $230 to $300 per month (before
subsidy from the Ministry of Social and Family Development (MSF)). Student
Care fees are not payable using the Child Baby Bonus (i.e. the Child Development
Account (CDA) which the child has).</p>
<h4><strong>Financial Assistance Scheme (FAS)</strong></h4>
<p><strong>Q17. When can parents/guardians apply for MOE Financial Assistance Scheme (FAS)?</strong>
</p>
<p>Application for MOE FAS opens in October. Approval and collection of school
books and uniforms will be tentatively in November.</p>
<p></p>
<h4><strong>Co-Curricular Activities (CCA)</strong></h4>
<p><strong>Q18. About the schools CCA program, how will the students go about in choosing? How will the school assist with the child’s decisions and help develop their interest?</strong>
</p>
<p>Students are encouraged to take up a CCA at P3. There will be a CCA Preview
at P2 to expose students to the different CCAs.</p>